[AUDIO LOGO]
>>DEBRA SILVERMAN:
I was 10 years old,
and I saw in the cartoon
section the word astrology,
and something lit up.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Really?
>>SILVERMAN: I did
a session for Sting.
I ended up traveling
for a year and a half.
The police reunion
tour playing mediator
and also doing readings.
The shamanic astrologer is
asking the most important
question, what is your purpose?
What is your soul doing here?
Because the shaman is
here to wake you up
and alter your
traditional point of view.
It's not something I've
publicly said here, we go.
I'm going to disclose.
>>GEORGE: Ooh.
>>SILVERMAN: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Breaking
news right now.
>>SILVERMAN: Right
now, ding, ding ding.
>>GEORGE: You took
a look at my chart.
Let's call it up.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Debra Silverman with us,
an expert astrologer,
psychotherapist, and author
with more than 40 years
of experience.
And she has taught
thousands of people
through her online
astrology school since 2015.
Debra, welcome to the program.
>>SILVERMAN: Thank you.
So glad to be here.
>>GEORGE: How did you get
involved in astrology?
>>SILVERMAN: It was
when the first time
I was 10 years old
in the Detroit News,
and I saw in the cartoon
section the word astrology,
and something lit up.
>>GEORGE: Really?
>>SILVERMAN: That
was how young I was.
By the time I was 21,
I was doing charts.
It was like if you would
have put a kid by a piano who
had never taken piano lessons,
>>GEORGE: I try, and they
fell in love with that.
>>SILVERMAN: It
just came through.
It's almost like a memory
that had come back to me.
And before I knew
it, self-taught.
I became a well-known
astrologer.
It's one of those deep
callings that came with me.
>>GEORGE: Did anyone else
help you and school you?
>>SILVERMAN: I went
to graduate school.
I have a degree in
clinical psychology.
But the graduate
school is a little bit
intimidated by the fact that
I was bringing astrology
into all my plans.
>>GEORGE: They don't
want to hear that.
>>SILVERMAN: Those two
didn't go together,
but what you don't know is
Carl Jung was an astrologer,
and he was quoted to say
psychology will be a dinosaur
science until it
includes astrology.
So he was doing it, but
he couldn't tell anyone
because it has
such a bad stigma.
>>GEORGE: You have worked
with some interesting talent
in your day.
Can you throw us
a couple of names?
>>SILVERMAN: Yes.
So I ended up meeting Sting's
best friend unbeknownst to me.
Within two days
after doing a reading
for him, got a phone
call from Sting,
who had just arrived in Denver.
Was about to start his tour
with the police and said,
you just met my best friend,
and he can't stop talking.
>>GEORGE: And I want to read in.
>>SILVERMAN: I so
then I ended up
traveling for a year
and a half with Sting
and the police reunion tour
playing the game of mediator
and also doing readings
for all the people.
And he became one
of my best allies.
>>GEORGE: Anybody else?
>>SILVERMAN: Aaron
Rodgers is now,
people are so
surprised to hear this.
The tattoo just came out
recently about astrology.
He's one of my students.
>>GEORGE: Sure.
OK.
And Madonna, I heard.
>>SILVERMAN: And Madonna.
>>GEORGE: Is that true?
>>SILVERMAN: Yes.
Yes, it's true.
I don't like
dropping those names,
but I know they impress people.
I always thought it was funny.
I was the same
astrologer the day
before I did all
those famous people,
but to get endorsed by
celebrities has a lot of cloud
in.
>>GEORGE: Well, it
helps your credibility.
>>SILVERMAN: Yeah, it
gave me credibility.
>>GEORGE: It Just enhances
the things that you do.
What is karma mean to you?
>>SILVERMAN: Karma is
a very strange word.
You really don't know.
It's a logical word that's been
passed from the Eastern times,
but in astrology,
it's very loud.
I can look at a chart and see
where your challenges will be.
The parts of your character
that over lifetimes, this
is my theory.
I'm not sure I
can validate this,
but it's certainly been
obvious over all these years.
There are certain patterns in
your behavior that repeat, that
are annoying, that are
personality traits that
make you feel uncomfortable,
and I can look at the chart
and call it out, and say this
is part of your character
that's not going away.
And we can call that karma,
we can call that lessons,
but the more that
you learn about it,
the less that the
karma becomes difficult
and suddenly it
becomes good karma
because your awareness is on.
>>GEORGE: What I've always said
about karma, what goes around
comes around.
>>SILVERMAN: That's
another way of saying it.
>>GEORGE: Is that true?
>>SILVERMAN: Yes.
So in other words, past lives,
Akashic Records, stories
that have happened
before return to you.
And so you get to see
part of your behavior
that came back from
your last life.
Sometimes, like for
me, for example,
I had the good karma of knowing
astrology at a very young age.
Difficult patterns
come when you have
really difficult
times in relationships
or you have health issues,
>>GEORGE: That happens.
>>SILVERMAN: And it's
right in the chart.
>>GEORGE: Debra, what
is a birth chart?
>>SILVERMAN: Based on
the moment of your birth,
the city you were born
in, and your birth date,
we can execute a chart.
>>GEORGE: All
important statistics?
>>SILVERMAN: Three
very important details
that you can't make
a chart without.
And it used to be--
it took so much math.
Like it was involved,
it took hours and hours.
Now, we have a button
we push on a computer
and there's the chart.
>>GEORGE: Amazing.
And you're going to do a
little chart reading for me
a little bit later
on in the program.
>>SILVERMAN: Exactly.
And I just want you to know what
it looks like because people
have never seen their chart.
And it follows you around
throughout your whole lifetime.
It's that moment of birth
where the planets were
that influences your
character and your karma
for the rest of your life.
>>GEORGE: Where did
you get my data?
>>SILVERMAN: I can't tell.
It's a little secret.
>>GEORGE: Huh.
OK.
>>SILVERMAN:
Anyways, you can put
anyone that's famous, honestly.
Their name in, and say
what their chart is
and it's in the archives
of the internet.
So I love doing that, meeting
someone, hearing a story,
looking at their
chart and beginning
to understand what
was their destiny
and how does it show
up based on astrology.
>>GEORGE: How
important are factors
within your life to the
astrology that is tied into it?
Because I've always
been fascinated
by how a planetary alignment
can affect somebody's life.
>>SILVERMAN: Exactly.
So this is where I'm
a psychotherapist.
I have a master's in
clinical psychology.
So the part of your life that
shows up with your personality,
and uniquely to you, is
dependent on the chart
and how that shows up.
So there is a marriage
between the destiny
of your lifetime, your family,
your upbringing, and then
the chart's influence.
And that's where it
gets really interesting.
>>GEORGE: That's fascinating.
>>SILVERMAN: It makes
an endless fascination.
>>GEORGE: It sounds like
you love doing what you do.
>>SILVERMAN: Oh, my God.
I'm so in love with it.
It's almost 45 years,
and I'm still captured
every single chart I see.
The part of it is I
came as a skeptic.
I was cautious.
>>GEORGE: Oh, really?
>>SILVERMAN: Because
I couldn't understand.
It made no sense.
And every single reading,
especially in graduate school
when I would do therapy and
someone would sit with me
and tell me all the things
that were wrong with them,
and I'd say, wait a
minute, let me explain this
to you in a different angle.
And it would change
their point of view
completely from
judging themselves
to understanding themselves.
>>GEORGE: What is an
old soul mean to you?
>>SILVERMAN: Can
see it in a chart.
There are certain
beings, and you
know this when you meet
someone, where they have wisdom.
>>GEORGE: Instantly.
>>SILVERMAN: And you
can look in their eyes
or you can feel it
in their energy.
And yes, you can see
it in their chart.
It simply means someone
who's done their work.
We come into this lifetime with
the weirdest personalities.
Raise your hand if
you have an ego?
Oh, look, everyone's
raising their hand.
We have these weird
personalities.
The difference, though, is
who has the wherewithal,
the wisdom, the
appetite to learn.
And that's an old soul who
takes difficulties, hardships,
depression, anxiety, all these
words that are present and ask
the question, when am I supposed
to be learning from this?
>>GEORGE: Debra, if
reincarnation is real,
does that mean they're all born
at the same time all the time?
Or is it different for you?
>>SILVERMAN: Definitely changes.
And there's a clue in astrology.
It's called the South
node that tells me what
your last lifetime theme was.
So there's our
indications in astrology
that represent the past lives,
but the goal of the game
is to keep moving.
So no, you don't come back
the same sign every time.
>>GEORGE: On Gaia's
program, "Microdose,"
they talk about the
purpose of reincarnation.
>> The past lives explain
something in current life
because the past lives have
a direct connection to life
today.
They explained something
we're working on
to change in life today,
which is what we call karma.
They also can explain
a relationship,
a phobia, a physical symptom.
The soul is required to evolve,
and we're required to learn.
So we gather karma, and
we also gather Dharma,
and that's what we're working
on in our current life.
Karma is a free will
decision we made
in a past life that perhaps
wasn't the best decision.
It's not a permanent
black mark on your soul,
it's something you can
balance in a subsequent life.
You have a life plan,
life intentions,
and then you basically
come in with free will.
>> Many humans experience
profound suffering during
their lifetime.
So why would a soul
choose to come into body
knowing it will be painful.
>> It's perfectly plausible
to me that from the framework
outside of this one, we would
choose to come into it knowing
that we were going to be having
a certain kind of suffering
because we know from that
framework that it's time
limited, that
you'll be out of it.
But then once you get
into this framework see,
that knowledge is blocked.
So that you are faced there
with the raw suffering
without the insight,
maybe the event
that you chose it
in the first place,
but also that it will be over.
>> Throughout many
regression therapy sessions,
patients not only recall
previous human lives,
but the lives of intelligent
off planet alien species.
>> I'm regressing a lot of
clients in the last 10 to 12
years who discovered their
inner planetary souls,
meaning they don't
regularly come here.
They come here on occasion.
And they come to Earth, if I
oversimplify the explanation,
because they're highly
evolved, and they
come from evolved,
healthy, locations.
They come to teach us how
to progress as humanity.
>>GEORGE: What do you
think of that Debra?
>>SILVERMAN: I love that.
And I totally agree.
The reincarnation, the
evolution of a soul
continues, and the
chart is the imprint
or the signature of this
lifetime what you agree to do.
So where you came from
and how old you are
shows up in this life with a
specific mission and a purpose.
>>GEORGE: If you looked at
the chart of a little baby,
would you be able
to pinpoint what
their future might be like?
>>SILVERMAN: That's one of
my favorite things to do.
Can you imagine if your parent
understood your character
as a child and they directed
you to what you were built for?
>>GEORGE: Before
it even developed.
Yeah.
>>SILVERMAN: Yes.
So this is one of my
greatest pleasures,
is giving parenting the insight.
>>GEORGE: Do they listen?
The parents.
>>SILVERMAN: They do.
And they say to me they listen
to the session again and again
and re-listen to it because once
the child starts to develop,
and they realize, for
example, a child doesn't like
to go to the party because
they're very water and quiet,
don't push them.
Or the child who can't stop
asking questions, encourage it.
So you learn the natural
tendency and you encourage it.
And then the parent and
the child are in rapport.
>>GEORGE: And you can see that?
>>SILVERMAN: Absolutely.
>>GEORGE: In a chart?
>>GEORGE: At a newborn?
>>SILVERMAN: At a newborn.
From the moment of
conception, if the-- and this
is interesting that
every hospital you go to,
they take a picture
of that moment.
They write down the time.
>>GEORGE: That's incredible.
>>SILVERMAN: This
is not a coincidence
that across time we've
known the significance.
We didn't know it
consciously, but this has
been carried on across time.
>>GEORGE: Is the
birth time, when
the little child takes
its first breath,
is that how they time that?
>>SILVERMAN: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>GEORGE: That is something.
>>SILVERMAN: It's fascinating
to understand that there's
a cosmic imprint that's
waiting for the parents
and waiting for the person, the
child, to become themselves.
And there's all this
language and information.
>>GEORGE: What is a
shamanic astrologer?
>>SILVERMAN: So there's
a distinction between,
we all must know this by now,
between the ego and the soul.
The ego is
traditional astrology.
Where am I going to grow up?
What am I going to be?
Who am I going to be?
With what's the
nature of my interest?
The question from the
shamanic astrologers,
tell me about your
soul's growth?
Just like what we just heard.
How many lifetimes?
What are you here to do?
So the shamanic astrologer
is looking at what
are the lessons this lifetime?
What is your purpose
for being here?
How can I support you to be
fully accepting of your fate?
Because often, for the human
condition, it's so confusing
and it's so troublesome.
So the shamanic
astrologer is asking
the most important question,
what is your soul doing here?
>>GEORGE: How do you become
a shamanic astrologer?
>>SILVERMAN: I think it
comes from inheriting
an old past life desire to
not just work with the surface
level of the
superficial, the ego,
but actually going deep enough.
And it's not something
you call yourself.
I would never say that.
That's a word.
It's just like it's
an inherent truth
that I love to
work at the deepest
level of the psychological
patterns that
have been imprinted with pain,
that's the shamanic journey is.
How do I take you up and out.
The shaman in olden
times had skeletons
and had drums and
dressed up funny,
and you'd come into
their little tent
and you'd be scared because
the shaman is here to wake
you up out of the
illusion and alter
your traditional point of view.
So then you shake
your head and go, oh,
thank you for reminding
me because we forget.
We come down here with amnesia.
And that's what the
chart is meant to do.
And a shamanic
astrologer reminds you,
and then you go, oh, my
God, that's so true of me.
>>GEORGE: That's right.
There are what?
12 Zodiac signs?
>>SILVERMAN: 12 Zodiac
signs, 10 planets.
>>GEORGE: All right, and
they're all different?
>>SILVERMAN: Every single
sign has a unique flavor.
They're based on the four
elements, water, air, Earth,
and fire.
The oldest foundation of
all of our ancient cultures.
All Indigenous people
pray to four directions.
The Egyptians worked
with the four elements,
the Hawaiians work with
hula with the four elements.
It's the oldest common truth.
Wisdom source are the
elements, and that
is the source of astrology.
>>GEORGE: Is there
a culture, Debra,
that is more into this
than the other one?
>>SILVERMAN: Well, the Mayans
had a complete astrology system
different than ours.
The Western astrologers, what
we work with, is one system.
There's Eastern astrology,
the Vedic system.
So there are so many
ancient systems.
The Jews, the ancient Jews--
>>GEORGE: Is one
better than another?
>>SILVERMAN: There's
no way we're ever
going to say one's
better than the other.
They all carry wisdom.
And then you pick your favorite.
Mine, of course, is Western
astrology, and you dive in,
and you stay true.
I honor all of the astrologers.
>>GEORGE: How did the
ancients know this?
>>SILVERMAN: It was brought to
us, and I can say this on Gaia,
I'm convinced that
the intelligence that
is so advanced, how could it
be possible to 4,000 years ago,
they knew the planets?
Directions?
And they knew how to
execute the mathematics.
>>GEORGE: Without
telescopes, without anything.
>>SILVERMAN: I think
it was the ETs.
It's not something
I've publicly said.
Here we go, I'm
going to disclose.
>>GEORGE: Ooh.
>>SILVERMAN: Yeah.
Here we go.
>>GEORGE: Breaking
news, right now.
>>SILVERMAN: Right
now, ding, ding, ding.
There is no way we could
have known the intelligence,
the airtight system, astrology.
I came as a skeptic and was
so wanting to make it wrong,
and there hasn't been
a session I've ever
sat with someone to not say
this explains everything.
>>GEORGE: So you're
saying it's possible ETs
came to this
planet, and unveiled
the planetary alignments
to these humans?
>>SILVERMAN: They dropped
the information as a matrix,
just like the pyramids.
There are things we can't
explain, the seven wonders.
There's influences that
go beyond the mind.
Astrology invites you
to go beyond the mind
and open up the heart and
allow the spiritual language
to begin.
>>GEORGE: Kundalini
is very important.
Barbara Hand Clow.
>>SILVERMAN: Who's
an astrologer.
>>GEORGE: She's a
great astrologer,
was on Gaia's "Open Minds."
>> The 30s are a hard decade.
I found that was a difficult,
it was a wonderful decade
in that that's when I had
my beautiful son, which
was the most wonderful thing
I did in this lifetime.
But at the same
time, I just found
it a very challenging decade
in terms of navigating,
to find out who
and what you are.
And as I talk to people, it
seems the 30s, for many people,
is difficult.
>> Yeah, that's also true.
So the first transit, that
the book is working with,
the Saturn return, which
occurs for all of us
when we're 29 to 30 years old.
And at that point,
we make a change
in our physical matrix, which
would be jobs, or marriages,
or having a child, or whatever.
And if you watch people
closely, everybody
makes a major change
at age 29 to 30.
You just can't find
anybody who doesn't.
>> Right
>> But as soon as they make
that major change and shift
their reality at that
physical plane level,
then they start processing
themselves emotionally.
And at this point
in time for humans,
the most difficult part
of our learning process
is definitely emotional.
So all the way through
the 30s, actually, we're
having a rocky emotional
journey because when we come up
to a midlife crisis,
then we're going
to have an emotional crisis.
The issue, as I
understand it, would
be that when we're ready
at a certain point, which
has to do with the astrological
transits, then what can happen
is this breakthrough from
higher realms of consciousness
and higher dimensions
of consciousness
can come into our
field and can influence
us to go to very high
levels of consciousness.
And so when you think about
it from this perspective,
and what Dr. Gerber
had to say about it,
it's not just
Kundalini rising, it's
also an opening to
higher dimensions.
Now, of course, in ancient
spiritual traditions,
they've always
thought of Kundalini
rising as an open to
spiritual consciousness.
So it's a process of energy
just going in two directions
from within us.
>>GEORGE: Debra,
I've always wondered
if you had the astrological
chart of political candidates
before they were elected,
and we outlined all of them,
the Democrats, or
Republican, the Libertarian,
and just laid it
right out, but you
had their charts for
each one, could you
be able to predict the type
of President they might be
or something like that?
>>SILVERMAN: 100%.
It's given me great
compassion, because when
you see a president's chart and
you understand their character,
from Trump to Obama, which
I've studied at length,
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>SILVERMAN: It
makes so much sense,
and compassion becomes
part of the conversation
because you see how can they
not be that particular person.
So the order that Obama is
the amazing communicator.
He's double air.
And the amount of fire
that Trump has that
controls his ego, it's so
right there in the chart.
Not making a judgment call,
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>SILVERMAN: But just
naming a person--
>>GEORGE: It is what it is.
>>SILVERMAN: It is what it
is and the personality traits
are so obvious.
>>GEORGE: Can people change even
though their astrological chart
is what it is?
If you were to spell
out to somebody, look,
you've got these traits.
These things are good, but
these aren't, can they fix that?
>>SILVERMAN: Well, that's
the whole point of coming
to a shamanic
astrologer, is you want
to understand the
broken records, where
you keep repeating yourself,
where things aren't working.
You want to understand
where your strengths are,
where suddenly you're finding
your gifts and it's flowing.
And yes, you can change it.
It's called awareness.
So as soon as there's
awareness, it's not
like you can totally
change your stripes,
but you can take the high
road or the low road.
>>GEORGE: Do you
think most people are
aware of their
pluses and minuses.
>>SILVERMAN: It's always
funny when I do a reading
and they go, oh, my God, she
knows me better than I do.
It becomes very
obvious those traits
that they came with
are going to carry on
throughout their whole lifetime.
That is how--
>>GEORGE: They know
some of those traits.
>>SILVERMAN: And they
don't have language for it.
This is the handicap.
Without studying astrology,
you're doing your own nature.
With studying astrology,
your awareness increases,
your language, and then
comes the compassion.
Like, oh, my dad, for example,
had no air in his chart,
and my brother took my class.
And all those years
he was so frustrated
that my dad never talked.
Then he found out,
oh, he has no air.
And that became a
doorway of compassion.
And suddenly he
understood why it
was he was so angry with him,
and the whole thing changed.
>>GEORGE: That's fascinating.
As a psychotherapist,
as an astrologer,
do you combine both abilities?
>>SILVERMAN: 100%.
Just like Carl Jung.
Every single chart that Carl
Jung, the original psychiatrist
had, he worked in therapy
with the chart, same for me.
So every session that I would
do when someone would start
complaining about
their character
or about their husband,
I'd say, excuse me,
I'm going to explain
to you this character.
And I've had people
come in who literally
were on the way to
the divorce lawyer,
I sit with the husband and
wife, and said, let me describe.
And then they were
like, why are you
trying to change this person?
And by the way, here's the high
road of someone who doesn't
talk, they're sensitive.
Or here's the high road of that
loud personality, they inspire.
And so I provide a
language to create
understanding of the very
thing that bugs you so much.
>>GEORGE: What are
the four elements?
>>SILVERMAN: So that's
a perfect bridge.
There's water, air,
Earth, and fire.
So water is those people
that don't talk very much.
They're quiet, they're
internal, they're shy,
they're vulnerable, they're
musicians, they're dancers,
they're the artist.
>>GEORGE: You call
them water people?
>>SILVERMAN: Those
are water people.
They're highly sensitive.
They cry very easily,
that's a clue for water.
Air is what you and I are.
We talk, and we think,
and we communicate,
and we read, and we ask
millions of questions.
And we're air heads.
Our minds are going
at the speed of light,
and we have information
all the time.
>>GEORGE: Grasping
everything we can.
>>SILVERMAN: So interested.
Earth people are grounded,
just as the word sounds.
They're stable, they
love spreadsheets,
they love cleaning,
they love organizing,
they love to put
things into form,
and they're very controlling
because they want you to do it
the right way, as
compared to air
that said what
was the right way?
And then last is the
fire personality,
super bold, super
enthusiastic, the athletes.
They're very driven,
and they love
to show up and show
off because when
you see a fire what do you do?
You stop and stare, and
they go, how do I look?
So there's four
different elements.
The water person would hate
to have you looking at them,
the fire person loves it,
that's the distinction.
>>GEORGE: With 12 Zodiac
signs and only four elements,
there's an overlap somewhere.
>>SILVERMAN: Good catch.
So there's three for each one,
and they are distinct universe,
like you can really talk about
the Gemini who loves to talk,
as distinct from
the Aquarius who
loves to go off into science.
There's distinctions
in each element.
>>GEORGE: Interesting.
You took a look at my
chart, let's call it up.
Let's call up George's chart.
And up in the left
hand corner, you
can see my birth
date June 4th, 1950.
>>SILVERMAN: The time.
>>GEORGE: The time I was born,
>>SILVERMAN: And the place.
>>GEORGE: 10:33 AM
in Detroit, Michigan.
>>SILVERMAN: And on
the right, the chart--
so in the category
of the elements,
you have that big triangle.
Can you see that?
>>GEORGE: Yes.
>>SILVERMAN: So the sun is the
circle in the dot at the top.
The moon looks like the moon
over there to the right,
and then down in the
bottom is Neptune.
That's called a grand trine in
air, and I just described air.
So now I can say to you
your strong element is air.
And guess what air is, the
communicator, the networker,
the interviewer,
the curious one.
Your chart was built for
the job that you have.
>>GEORGE: Interesting.
I was already determined
what I was going to be.
>>SILVERMAN: And so
you interviewed people
and you asked
questions, and I know
that at 21, I was listening
to one of your interviews.
You started your first interview
in astrology every seven years
after 21.
She was just speaking
to Saturn return.
You enter your destiny
somewhere about 21, you find it,
by 28 to 29, it shows up.
So everyone goes
through these cycles.
And yours is all
about air and thinking
and talking and communicating,
and look, here you are.
>>GEORGE: Is there anything
there that scares you?
>>SILVERMAN: I would say that
if there's anything scary
is part of you need
a lot of attention.
You do have Leo
rising, so there's--
>>GEORGE: But I'm not
a braggadocious person.
>>SILVERMAN: No, you're
not a braggadocious person.
>>GEORGE: I've
never needed that.
>>SILVERMAN: No, but you
seem to be in a position
where you're drawing attention.
It's not a bad--
this is my point.
So you have a gift of being
able to perform, Leo rising.
But it doesn't
come with your ego,
and that's the distinction
of the low road is ego.
The high road is I'm
just sharing my radiance,
my love for communicating.
>>GEORGE: If I used
my ego, would it
make me a different
kind of person?
>>SILVERMAN: It would make
you much bolder, and much more
demanding.
So the ego is hungry,
it's starving.
>>GEORGE: And maybe
obnoxious, who knows.
>>SILVERMAN: And
obnoxious, right.
The ego starves for attention.
It has a neediness.
It's always hungry for--
and the soul on the other hand,
is the part that wants to give.
And this is really the
dance of astrology.
How do I blend my
ego in my soul?
The need I have to be
human and the need I
have to be spiritual.
>>GEORGE: Debra, is any
of this therapeutic?
>>SILVERMAN: Well, as a
psychotherapist, all of it
is because every
session that I do,
I get to help people fall
in love with themselves
right in front of me.
I've had someone
call me once and say,
after I finished the
first man session,
his wife called and she said,
I think you knew him better
than we do, can we have
a session together?
And that is the
therapeutic tool.
I get to show someone who
they are in a lens of love,
and suddenly, they
see themselves as
though they had never seen
that part of themselves before.
So great example is you.
At worst, your
communication would be--
to some people, he's
always asking questions.
But the high road is, yeah,
that was his function.
>>GEORGE: I want answers.
>>SILVERMAN: I
want to understand.
My appetite to learn
never stops at George.
>>GEORGE: Matias De Stefano
on the Gaia program initiation
also talked about similar
things about building
blocks of reality.
>> As I said before, the main
structures that were created
in the universe, the main beings
that created everyone else
after them were the species of
Earth, fire, water, and air.
And these four
beings are related
to the construction
of every reality
through the mineral
world, the water,
and the aspects of the
light and aspects of gases.
So every being that we're
evolving from those four
statements, the four
pillars of the reality,
where the projection, the
physical projection of the time
in the other dimensions.
So while for the
spirit, the process
means expressed, experiment,
integrate, and transcend,
for us in the matter, we will
relate these four statements
of the spirit like the water,
the Earth, the fire, and air.
So this four aspects
in the physical world
are the ones that
helps us to understand
the concepts of the divine.
So each one of them,
the four of them,
has a process itself
to be accomplished
in order for a being to evolve
from the matter to the divine.
This process brings
us to understand
that from the very deep reality,
the beings in the material
world has to look to
the stars and to reach
the pattern of the divine from
the very darkness to the light.
And that process of growth
is different in every planet,
but the meaning and the
concept is almost the same.
>>GEORGE: What do
you think of him?
>>SILVERMAN: That was
a little abstract.
I like to speak super simple.
So here's how it works for me.
>>GEORGE: All right, good.
>>SILVERMAN: Water is
the emotional realm.
It's the ability for
us to really care.
And we can get too sensitive,
or we can be very compassionate.
Air is the ability
to communicate.
We can talk straight and be
very honest and transparent,
or we can talk in
circles and get confused.
Earth is the part of us that
wants to ground and fulfill
our purpose here and
be detail oriented,
or it gets controlling, and
it gets caught with I'm not
good enough, I should.
And it gets caught
in a negativity.
And then last, fire,
is our heartbeat.
We can't live without
any of these elements.
Fire is the joy,
makes me just excited
listening to all these people
talk about their spirituality,
and that's fire, the
joy and the exuberance.
So there's a
necessary relationship
with all four elements.
You can't live without water,
can't live without air,
>>GEORGE: No, you can't.
>>SILVERMAN: Can't live without
Earth, can't live without fire.
So these elements,
in my language,
are really psychological.
And the more that you
understand the balance
of four wheels in a car,
if one of them goes down,
of those four elements,
the system breaks.
So all my life's work is
turning people's observer
on to realize, well,
which of my elements.
This is the book I wrote,
"The missing element."
Which of my elements
is off center so
that I can live a
life that's balanced?
That's my whole life's work.
>>GEORGE: Debra,
when astrologers
talk about mercury retrograde,
what does that mean?
>>SILVERMAN: It's
actually reality
that when looking
from Earth, mercury
appears to be going backwards.
And it simply means that
the physical reality
of communicating and
computers and airplanes
are going to
slightly be altered.
I used to try to
pretend because I'm so
practical that it wasn't true.
It sounded like a theory,
but if you pay attention,
it's really true, that
during mercury retrograde,
there's more glitches.
It's simply that there's
an energetic going
in the opposite
direction of the Earth.
it's, they say it's like
when two trains are traveling
together, and at the
same speed, suddenly one
looks like it's going
backwards, and that's
what mercury retrograde is.
>>GEORGE: Have you ever had
any surprises in astrology?
>>SILVERMAN: It's
constantly surprising me.
I am never ever--
>>GEORGE: So you're
learning new things?
>>SILVERMAN: Every single chart
that I do, every reading that I
do is an individual soul.
It's shocking to think
there's 8 billion people here,
and even identical
twins aren't the same.
And all of them carry
karma, destiny, purpose,
that's unique to their soul.
So every single
session I do, I'm like,
did that really just appear
in a completely unique way.
And, yes, and that's what
keeps my fascination.
>>GEORGE: I had a
palm reader on Coast
to Coast a couple of
weeks ago and asked them
about identical twins.
And I said, are there palm
prints and fingerprints
the same?
If they're identical twins,
you would think they would be.
He said, no, they're not.
They're different.
>>SILVERMAN: Exactly.
Every single soul,
isn't that amazing
when you think about
it, that there's
8 billion people here in every
soul is volunteer to come here.
No one got pushed on the bus.
We came with a chart, with
a destiny and a purpose.
And my job, as
the astrologer, is
to help you remember
what did you come to do.
And usually, like
you, it's already
occurred as you would expect.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>SILVERMAN: But
to put words to it
and to articulate the timing,
astrology is all about timing.
So we can see like when
will the season change,
when will your life change,
when will Saturn return come,
when will Uranus
opposite Uranus happen.
These are eras in life that
I can predict with confidence
that will describe change.
>>GEORGE: Has astrology
surprised you ever?
>>SILVERMAN: I'm
constantly in awe.
It's never ending.
And I'm so excited
that you're opening
your another doorway
with my language
because my simple surprise is it
never stops informing the soul.
>>GEORGE: Never.
>>SILVERMAN: Never.
And it's never
ever ending for me.
After 45 years, I'm
still just as fascinated
as I was when I started.
>>GEORGE: Where do
you see astrology
going in the next 25 years?
>>SILVERMAN: Well, if you
notice on all social media,
there's such a
popularity because we've
entered the Aquarian Age.
You've probably heard that term.
>>GEORGE: Yes.
>>SILVERMAN: There
was a woman called
Alice Bayley, who wrote
in the early 1900s, who
wrote 19 books.
I don't know if you
know her work, But she--
>>GEORGE: 19.
>>SILVERMAN: She was
downloaded through a man called
Djwal Khul that was
channeled through her
and she called out that there
would be this change called
the Aquarian Age,
where we would make
a decision as a
collective, will we
make it through this
threshold because we're
at a critical moment when
there's this many people
and there's this much ecological
trauma that is occurring.
The question has to be as the
astrologer, will we survive?
And what will it take
for me as an individual
to show up with my highest
self, my best version,
so I can facilitate the
transition we're in.
>>GEORGE: What would you say
is the most heartwarming thing
you've done with astrology?
>>SILVERMAN: I've watched
people fall in love.
I've watched people
understand their children.
I think the greatest
gift is watching someone
who doesn't really
like their job,
and I give them
back to themselves
and they find what
they really want to do
and their life force comes
back, their enthusiasm
comes back, because people in
the wrong spot doing something
against their chart
is very disheartening.
>>GEORGE: Why do people
need an astrologer
to decide what their
career should be like?
Or relationships should be?
>>SILVERMAN: We
conform all the time.
We try to pretend that
we want people to like us
and we do what our parents
expected or society demanded.
And then all of a sudden, you
get true to your own nature,
and you find your own rhythm
and your own authenticity.
And the next thing
you know your energy
comes back, you
find your calling,
and you fulfill your purpose.
I don't know why
else anyone would
come to Earth if they didn't
want to fulfill their purpose.
>>GEORGE: Is there
anything about astrology
that has scared you?
>>SILVERMAN: I think the
problem with astrologers
is they talk in jargon.
And a lot of time when
you listen to them
or you go into it, there's
a lot of prediction,
and people say things like,
oh, this is a scary chart.
That is not true.
God did not make a
mistake when she made you.
That was a perfect moment,
and there was a purpose to it.
And seeing through the eyes of
love, it becomes so healing.
So I don't find it scary.
What I find scary is all the
jargon, and the confusion,
and the amount of words.
I like when astrology
comes down to ground level,
and it's practical, and
there's really an application
that you can see, and it
changes people's lives.
>>GEORGE: I know when
I have astrologers
on "Coast to Coast," my radio
show, and we take phone calls,
every line is lit.
And as soon as one person gets
off, that other line is lit.
>>SILVERMAN: And do
you know why that is?
Because it's in the
chambers of our mind,
the memory of our
zeitgeist is we all
know that there was
something handed to us
that's ancient and
timeless and stable.
>>GEORGE: In all ages.
>>SILVERMAN: And my grandmother
knew what sign she was.
This has been
carried across time.
And so while the new age has
brought so many other doorways,
astrology is one of the oldest,
simplest, and consistent.
We know the sun's
coming up tomorrow.
We know the moon is
coming out tonight,
and we know the exact degree
brought to us by the Egyptians
4,000 years ago.
Is that shocking?
>>GEORGE: Not only
is it shocking,
but what is the birth time
have to do with astrology?
>>SILVERMAN: Great question.
So at the moment of your birth,
we know where the planet--
it's like a snapshot.
And depending on exactly where
the physician, so, for example,
you're Leo rising.
That was determined by
your moment of birth.
All the planets we know
that day where they'll be,
but where in the sky
are they, and that's
required to know
the time, the city.
I mean, it's very accurate.
It's a science.
The oldest science on Earth.
>>GEORGE: It really is.
Let's take a look
at Matias, again,
as he's going to talk
about the cosmic clock.
>> It was also a
clock to understand.
It was not just
for individuals, it
was for the whole planet
that helps us to understand
that the process in daily life
that we have from being born,
grow, and then die, was the
three processes that we also,
as civilizations, as material
realities, we also live.
That helps us to
understand that there
is a rise of an
empire at the moment
that the empire reached the
highest point of information
and rule, and then there
is the fall of an empire.
So everyone in the
history of humanity
knew that through
this clock, we could
understand the processes in
which we would rise and fall.
That helps us know that whatever
is going to happen in history,
it will be related to the
portals and the concepts
of the divine in the skies.
It's impossible
for a civilization
to keep going exactly
the same always
because you need to go through
the 12 phases of reality.
So this big clock is
helping us to understand
that no matter what we do, after
2000 years, our civilization
and the idea of this
civilization will change,
will die, and another
one will born.
This is also the idea,
not only for humans
and the planets in
the physical shape
to understand that
everything in the universe
is bounded by time.
So everything that is happening
in our physical realities,
and in our energetic realities
through time and space,
are just the clock that
the spiritual mind has
to understand when is the time
to be body, when is the time
to be soul, when is
the time to be spirit,
and how the three of them
in the four realities
can help us to
understand the self,
and what are we capable of.
>>GEORGE: Debra, is
astrology a science?
>>SILVERMAN: It is.
It's all based on numbers,
actual time of you were born,
the birth date, everything
is very, very detailed.
>>GEORGE: If people
want readings from you,
how do they find you?
>>SILVERMAN: I have 20
astrologers that I've trained,
certified astrologers.
I have--
>>GEORGE: 20 astrologers?
>>SILVERMAN: Yes.
That have been really
rigorously trained.
I have a school, where
I teach people how
to do this and make a career.
>>GEORGE: It's taught
thousands already.
>>SILVERMAN: And it's
my greatest passion
to watch someone
that doesn't even
believe to start with
watch them take level one
and fall in love with
themselves, take level two
and learn how to
execute a chart,
and level three where
they start doing readings.
>>GEORGE: How do they find you?
>>SILVERMAN: They just go to
Deborah Solomon astrology.
I have a website.
I have an Instagram.
I have a Facebook.
I have a YouTube.
I'm a social media phenomenon
because I'm older than I look,
and I've been in this
world for so many years.
And then I realized, wow,
the Aquarian Age has arrived.
We've got the internet
to communicate in ways
that we never had before.
>>GEORGE: You're 23 years old,
when did you start doing this?
>>SILVERMAN: Yeah, you
haven't seen my chart yet.
Not far off from you.
I have definitely aged well
because I figured out the four
elements, and I'm in love
with this experience here.
And it's so wonderful at
Gaia to see how much you're
tickling and inspiring people
to think and open their mind
because that's what's
required to make it through--
>>GEORGE: Oh, this
company loves the area
we've been talking about.
>>SILVERMAN: I know,
and it's necessary
because as we get
through this threshold,
as the planet moves into
this very strong cycle,
it's called Pluto
return in America,
what he was just describing.
Every 240 years, a civilization
goes up, and it goes down.
And when Pluto returns,
there's a death.
And it's not to be mistaken
with something's wrong.
It's to be understood,
as an astrologer,
that timing is everything.
And once you're in the
flow, and you're conscious,
and you're observers on, and
you're aware of the cycles,
you're not scared anymore.
>>GEORGE: But we have
had good times in life,
we've had bad times in life.
>>SILVERMAN: There's
life and there's death.
There's aging and there's
youth, and I'm really
enjoying the whole thing.
>>GEORGE: Don't point at
me when you say aging.
>>SILVERMAN: I'm aging, too.
You just can't tell.
The truth is everything
moves in cycles.
And astrology is
all about timing.
And when you understand
that time goes on forever
in every direction,
and that there's
ETs or higher intelligence
watching us, it's not so scary.
We just can't understand
it because we can't see it.
And that's the value
of studying astrology.
It's very comforting to
know that we can totally
trust where those planets
are, they're consistent,
they're stable, and
they are not changing.
>>GEORGE: Debra, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>SILVERMAN: That's
been my pleasure.
>>GEORGE: I'm a Gemini,
planetary alignments decided
a long time ago that I'd
be doing this program,
and I'm glad I'm with
you on "Beyond Belief."